---
title: "How Fake News and AI-Generated Texts Can Impact Artificial Intelligences?"
date: 2024-02-02
toc: true
draft: false
topic: ia
tags:
  - IA
  - me
---
Have you ever wondered how fake news and machine-generated texts affect the artificial intelligences (AIs) that underpin today's technology? I recently had an interesting conversation with a colleague at work on this topic, and it truly got me thinking.

### The Conversation that Started it All

It all began with a question from my colleague: "How can articles automatically generated by AI and fake news affect the training of new AIs?" He was concerned that these digital intelligences might be spreading misinformation like confetti, and I agree with that concern.

### Ethical Challenges in the World of AIs

We then delved into the heart of the matter: the quality of data.

Just as our opinions are influenced by what we read, AIs are influenced by the quality of the information they receive. It's like giving them the recipe for a cake and expecting it to turn out perfect. However, if the recipe is flawed, so will be the cake.

The conversation led us to the importance of correcting AIs when they make mistakes. Feedback is key, but we also touched on something as basic as transparency. How can we trust answers if we don't know where they come from?

### **The Ethical Dilemma of Censorship in Data Training**

As our conversation deepened, we confronted an ethical dilemma surrounding censorship in the data training process. Filtering information during this initial phase might sound like a solution to ensure quality, but here arises the big question: Where do we draw the line between improving quality and censoring valuable perspectives? If we add censorship, the AI won't obtain real information but rather the information we want it to provide.

### Actions We Can Take

The conclusion of our conversation was that we all have a role to play. From using high-quality datasets to patiently correcting AI errors and being honest about when a text is machine-generated. And, of course, educating ourselves! Knowing how to identify fake information. Additionally, actively contrasting information and not sticking to a single viewpoint, as an AI may not always be right.

### My Personal Viewpoint

In summary, I believe this AI world needs an ethical touch. If we are going to let machines learn from us, **we must ensure they learn the best from us**. Let's use high-quality data, correct their errors with patience, be honest in our interactions with them, and promote values such as truth, justice, and fairness in AI development. Only then can we create a digital future that is prosperous and fair for everyone.

The conversation with my colleague was not just an exchange of ideas; it was a reminder that we are all part of this evolving digital story and have the responsibility to **build a better future**. Only by actively engaging in the creation of ethical and responsible AI can we ensure that this technology is used for the benefit of humanity.