---
title: "Bitcoin and the Blockchain"
date: 2022-11-11
topic: bitcoin
toc: true
tags:
    - bitcoin
draft: false
---
# Bitcoin and the Blockchain

There are words that we are hearing more and more often, but we don't really know what they mean. Bitcoin and the Blockchain are two of those words. In this article, I will try to explain what they are and how they work.

## What is Bitcoin?
Bitcoin is the first decentralized peer-to-peer payment network that is powered by its users with no central authority or middlemen. From a user perspective, Bitcoin is pretty much like cash for the Internet. Bitcoin can also be seen as the most prominent triple entry bookkeeping system in existence.

## How does Bitcoin work?
Bitcoin works as a peer-to-peer network. This means that there is no central authority to issue new money or keep track of transactions. Instead, these tasks are managed collectively by the nodes of the network. Bitcoin is open-source; its design is public, nobody owns or controls Bitcoin and everyone can take part. Through many of its unique properties, Bitcoin allows exciting uses that could not be covered by any previous payment system.

## What is the Blockchain?

The blockchain is a public ledger that records bitcoin transactions. A novel solution accomplishes this without any trusted central authority: the maintenance of the blockchain is performed by a network of communicating nodes running bitcoin software. Transactions of the form payer X sends Y bitcoins to payee Z are broadcast to this network using readily available software applications.

## How does the Blockchain work?

The blockchain is a distributed database - to achieve independent verification of the chain of ownership of any and every bitcoin amount, each network node stores its own copy of the blockchain. From time to time, a node will go offline. It will be automatically replaced by the network through its consensus algorithm. The blockchain is a distributed ledger that is used to record transactions across many computers so that the record cannot be altered retroactively without the alteration of all subsequent blocks and the collusion of the network. This allows bitcoin software to determine when a particular bitcoin amount has been spent, which is necessary in order to prevent double-spending in an environment without central oversight.

## How is the Blockchain secured?

The blockchain is secured by the miners. Miners are the people who run the bitcoin software and they are the ones who keep the network up and running. They do this by solving a computational problem which allows them to chain together blocks of transactions (hence bitcoin's famous "blockchain"). In return for validating transactions and adding them to the public ledger, miners are rewarded with newly-created bitcoins and transaction fees.

## How are new bitcoins created?

New bitcoins are created by a competitive and decentralized process called "mining" and are awarded to the first person who solves a very difficult puzzle which is generated by the software. This puzzle is so difficult that it can only be solved with specialized hardware. These specialized computers cost thousands of dollars each. In a sense, this is what makes bitcoin mining a risky business. But if you do it right and don't get lucky, you can make a tidy profit. As of January 2015, the total value of all existing bitcoins exceeded 10 billion US dollars, with millions of dollars worth of bitcoins exchanged daily.

## How do I get bitcoins?

There are a few ways you can get bitcoins. You can buy them on exchanges, directly from other people via marketplaces or use the services of bitcoin ATM's. You can also get them by accepting them as payment for goods and services or by "mining" them.

## There is any limit to the amount of bitcoins that can be created?

The number of bitcoins created each year is automatically halved over time until bitcoin issuance halts completely with a total of 21 million bitcoins in existence. The bitcoin protocol - the rules that make bitcoin work - say that only 21 million bitcoins can ever be created by miners. This number is expected to be reached sometime around the year 2140. The rate at which bitcoins are created halves every 210,000 blocks, the block time is approximately 10 minutes and the reward will decrease from 25 to 12.5 bitcoins.

## What is the difference between Bitcoin and the Blockchain?

Bitcoin is a digital currency and the blockchain is a digital ledger. The blockchain is the technology that makes bitcoin possible. 


<hr>

With this article, I hope I have been able to explain what Bitcoin and the Blockchain are and how they work. If you have any questions, please feel free to ask them in the comments below.